hey what's up guys explanation pro is
here today i'll explain one of the most
confusing movie title tenet
so let's start the explanation without
any delay the movie begins in an opera
house in kiev while the orchestra is
playing in front of a packed audience
armed men enter the scene and take the
audience hostage
in a parked van outside a group of
undercover cia agents prepare to enter
the opera house they plan to blend with
the rest of the police
as they enter the opera house the main
character an unnamed protagonist has a
mission to extract a person in a
box-like object
the protagonist manages to retrieve both
safely but he returns to the opera house
to remove some bombs
he gets almost killed while removing a
bomb but a mysterious man strangely
saves him the bullet that the mysterious
man fired seems to go in reverse
the protagonist manages to escape but
some men capture him on a railway the
men torture him wanting him to tell the
identity of his colleagues but the
protagonist remained silent after seeing
a window of opportunity that his friend
provided the protagonist swallows a
suicide pill and dies
after that however the protagonist wakes
up in a hospital bed
he learns from his boss that the pill is
actually a test on whether he is loyal
or not of course he passed
disheartened by what happened to him and
his team the protagonist wants to quit
but his boss gives him another
assignment
his boss tells him to join an unknown
organization named tenet the protagonist
prepares for his mission inside of a
windmill after that the protagonist
travels to a facility via ship and a car
once he gets there a scientist meets and
briefs him about the nature of inverted
bullets
the scientist explains that the bullet's
entropy is inverted which means that it
goes backward instead of forward when a
gun is fired the gun is catching bullets
the protagonist asks the scientist where
the bullets came from and she replies by
saying that they came from the future
she adds that the possibility of
inverting a bullet could be catastrophic
for the world because it means that
everything could be inverted or reversed
the protagonist traces the origin of the
bullets from an arms dealer in mumbai
named sanjay singh
the place where singh lives proves to be
a challenge and so the protagonist
receives help from a man named neil
despite it being their first meeting
neil knows many things about the
protagonist which shocks the protagonist
together the two of them enter sings
place by bungie jumping upwards
there the protagonist locates singh who
is talking to his wife the protagonist
threatens singh for information about
the origin of the inverted bullets
singh's wife priya reveals that she is
the arms dealer and that his husband is
only a front of the business
priya tells him that she knows about
tenet and that she sold the inverted
bullets to a russian man named andre
sater
she also tells him to talk to his
contact that is out of seder's reach
after gathering the information needed
the protagonist and neil escaped by
bungie jumping again
the protagonist immediately travels to
britain to talk to priya's contact sir
michael crosby
while eating crosby tells the
protagonist that he can reach satyr
through his estranged wife catherine
barton or cat
crosby adds that the protagonist can
approach cat if he shows her a fake goya
painting a forgery made by a man named
areppo
kat and areppo were close and sader knew
about their relationship
after checking the fake goya painting
and telling her about a repo cat agrees
to talk to the protagonist about the
painting
cat tells the protagonist that the fake
painting which he auctioned to sader is
being used by his husband to blackmail
cat threatening her about being put to
prison
cat also tells her about their time on
ayat in vietnam where sader offers cat
her freedom but as an exchange cat will
never see her son again
because of this kat finds the whole
situation inescapable soon after sader's
men arrive in the restaurant and
immediately surround the two cat leaves
the restaurant through the kitchen the
protagonist attempts to follow her but
he is surrounded again by seder's men
the protagonist successfully fights his
way off of the restaurant but cat
already left when he's finished
the next day the protagonist talks to
kat again and asks her where sader keeps
the drawing
kat tells him that the drawing is held
inside a freeport storage facility in an
airport at oslo
after neal successfully scouted the
storage facility he and the protagonist
draws a plan to steal the drawing there
the plan is that they will pretend to
enter the facility as rich men
at the same time neil's connections will
drive an airplane full of gold bars
toward the storage facility
at first the plan is going well as neil
and the protagonist maneuvers the
various rooms
after reaching the final room the
protagonist and neil get attacked by two
mysterious men that emerged from a
device one of them is moving in reverse
neil chases the other one while the
protagonist fights the man moving in
reverse
after defeating and catching one of them
the protagonist attempts to interview
the mysterious man shooting him in his
right arm but the man manages to escape
after what happened in oslo the
protagonist meets with priya again she
tells him that the device they saw in
oslo is an inverting device called
turnstile which explains why one of the
men is moving in reverse
priya also tells him that seder is
gathering plutonium the protagonist
meets with cat again lying to her about
finding and destroying the drawing
he then asks her if she could introduce
him to her husband sader
kat is understandably hesitant but the
protagonist provides her with a
well-researched alibi
afterward the protagonist delivers cat
to sader's yacht there sader asks cat
about who the protagonist is cat tells
him that he is a friend of hers that
night the protagonist meets sader over a
dinner seder orders for his execution
but later spares him when the
protagonist picks his interest sader
then asks him to meet him tomorrow at 8
in the morning
the following day sader reveals to kat
that the drawing had not been destroyed
on the oslo incident which means that
the protagonist had lied to cat
afterward sader and kat meet up with the
protagonist on a boat
cat removes sader's safety harness and
throws him to the sea in the middle of a
boating activity
the protagonist saves sader's life in
the yacht cat confronts the protagonist
on his lie about the painting
she also misunderstands the
protagonist's mission as she thinks he's
only there to make a deal with seder
regarding weapons
the protagonist tells her cryptically
that satyr holds all of their lives not
just cats in her son's lives
after seder summons him the protagonist
before leaving the room gives cat a gun
to protect herself
in seder's room seder talks to the
protagonist about plutonium here sader
reveals to the protagonist about his
backstory that he grew up in a secret
soviet city called stock 12 and that he
saw a box that contained a future
message in bars of gold
after their talk sader goes to his room
and intends to punish cat for attempting
to kill him but before he can do any
significant damage his men inform him
that a box had arrived
outside the protagonist witnesses a
helicopter dropping a metal box to the
yacht
seder opens the box and sees bars of
gold after noticing that one of it is
missing he sees one of his men had
stashed it sater then promptly beats him
to death with the gold
the protagonist is unaware that he has
already seen sader's guard beats the
protagonist up and delivers him to satyr
sader orders him to go to tallinn and
steal an important object from a truck
after that the protagonist meets up with
neil to talk about a highway heist
meanwhile seder brings his wife to a
warehouse cat threatened seder by
pointing a gun at him the same gun given
by the protagonist earlier
but sader knows that cat cannot shoot
him and violently takes it off of here
he then beats her up
the protagonist and neil successfully
pull the heist off by surrounding the
truck with four different trucks
after noticing that the object inside
the briefcase is not plutonium but
rather something else they see a car
driving backwards on the highway
the car shoots at them misses and then
chases them afterward
the backward car's passenger shows
himself to be sader pointing a gun at
her wife's head
seder threatens the protagonist that if
he does not hand off the object he will
shoot cat
the protagonist having no choice gives
him the object bouncing the briefcase on
the hood of another backward moving
white car
but this is a ruse as the object is
instead thrown inside of the white car
seder however leaves his wife in the car
after getting what he wants
without its driver and because cat is
handcuffed the protagonist jumps to the
backward moving car and stops it before
colliding with other vehicles
after saving cat they get immediately
surrounded by seder's men after neil
tells the protagonist that his allies
are coming the protagonist and cat gets
kidnapped by seder's men bringing them
to warehouse shown earlier
inside there is a turnstile and on the
other side of the room seder threatens
the protagonist that he will kill her if
he does not reveal the object's
whereabouts
the protagonist tells sader that it is
inside the glove box of their car
sader despite of this still shoots cat
in the stomach
after this neil's allies who are
actually the tenant come in and save the
protagonist seder manages to escape
frustrated that seder seems to know all
of their moves the protagonist threatens
neil
one of neil's allies tells him that
seder knows these things because he
sends half of his men back in time to
save cat the protagonist decides to
enter the turnstile along with cat and
neal and move back in time to when the
oslo incident happened
neil's allies brief him about what to do
when he is inverted he must wear an
oxygen mask filled with inverted air and
the effects of temperatures are in
reverse
the protagonist enters the turnstile
turns himself inverted and goes outside
the warehouse to witness the world
moving in reverse
he drives a white car and goes to the
scene of the exchange
there the inverted seder finds out that
the protagonist has placed the object on
the white car
after crashing the white car sater
successfully retrieves the object the
protagonist wakes up inside a cargo
heading to oslo in reverse
here neil tells both cat and the
protagonist about the principle of
inversion he also tells them about
sader's plan which is to invert the
world's entropy thus making the whole
world move back in time and then
destroying it they finally reach oslo on
the night of the incident but the
protagonist finds a bullet hole in his
right arm
before neal could heal it they hear that
the airplane had already hit the
facility signaling that they have to
move
while dressed in police uniforms the
protagonist and neal carry cat inside
the burning facility
the protagonist enters first but finds
out soon that he was actually the
mysterious man he fought before
a fight ensues between the protagonist
and his own self it is also revealed
that neil found out about the man's
identity while he was chasing him the
protagonist successfully reaches the
turnstile and signals neil tamu after
neil and kat also successfully used the
turnstile all of them escaped via an
ambulance
now that they are not inverted the
protagonist sets up a meeting with priya
in oslo priya tells her that sader is
collecting nine objects from the future
to assemble an algorithm that will
enable the inverse entropy of the world
the protagonist decides to stop sader
but not before he lets priya promise
that both cat and her son will not be
hurt while aboard a ship the protagonist
neil and cat are planning how to handle
seder
cat reveals that sader is dying from
cancer they then connect the dots that
seder intends to kill himself during
their trip to vietnam and he wants to
take the whole world with him after this
the protagonist informs the tenant about
their plan to go back in time on the day
of cad and seder's vacation in vietnam
on that day the tenant will go to
seder's hometown while cat distracts
sader in vietnam
before leaving for the mission the
protagonist gives kat a phone to call
him if she ever feels unsafe instructing
her to state her time and place
tenet splits into two teams red team and
blue team the red team will comprise of
troops that moves in regular time while
the blue team will comprise of inverted
troops
the plan is that both teams will
simultaneously go to the battlefield the
protagonist and the leader of red team
ives will split from their team and
handle the algorithm
on the day of the mission cat goes to
vietnam and manages to convince sader
that she is her past self
meanwhile a great battle ensues in stock
12 as both regular and inverted troops
stormstock twelve
the protagonists and knives manage to
split off however the entrance closes
after they walk through a tripwire
inside the underground facility the
protagonist sees a dead blue team
soldier on the ground
they struggle to open the door on the
other side one of sader's henchmen
handles the algorithm
outside neil who is inverted tries to
warn the protagonist about the tripwire
he removes his inversion and reinverts a
couple of times to warn them but he
fails again and again
the protagonist talks to sader to stop
his plan but sader is stubborn
he then orders his henchman to kill the
protagonist but this gets blocked by the
dead blue soldier on the ground that
returned to life and then runs away in
reverse afterward
then the protagonist attacks the
henchmen and defeats him he also manages
to secure the algorithm
meanwhile in vietnam cat shoots sader
killing him she then dives to the sea
and leaves on a boat after securing the
algorithm the three men the protagonist
neil and ives decide at first to
separate the object and then kill
themselves so that no one can find it
however neil gives his peace to the
protagonist he also reveals that the
protagonist is the one that recruited
him to be part of the tenet in the
future
he adds that they actually knew each
other for a long time but this doesn't
happen yet as neil is leaving the
protagonist notices his backpack is the
same as the inverted dead blue soldier
that saves him earlier
the protagonist asks him if things will
change in the future to which neil
answers that what's happened happened
back in britain priya attempts to
assassinate cat for knowing too much
but the protagonist stops her by killing
her after guessing what priya will do
and receiving cat's call of her exact
location in time
the movie ends with the protagonist
concluding that he is the mastermind
behind tenet
thank you so much for watching if you
enjoyed this video please hit the like
button and also subscribe my channel for
more videos like this
see you in the next video